####-SPECIAL NOTE: 

 
In this reprint several minor inaccuracies, most of them noted by readers, have 
been corrected. For example, the rune text now corresponds exactly with the runes 
on  Thror's  Map.  More  important  is  the  matter  of  Chapter  Five.  There  the  true 
story  of  the  ending  of  the  Riddle  Game,  as  it  was  eventually  revealed  (under 
pressure)  by Bilbo  to Gandalf,  is  now  given  according  to  the Red Book,  in  place 
of  the  version  Bilbo  first  gave  to  his  friends,  and  actually  set  down  in  his  diary. 
This  departure  from  truth  on  the  part  of  a  most  honest  hobbit  was  a  portent  of 
great  significance.  It  does  not,  however,  concern  the  present  story,  and  those who 
in this edition make their first acquaintance with hobbit-lore need not troupe about 
it.  Its  explanation  lies in the history of the Ring, as it was set out in the chronicles 
of the Red Book of Westmarch, and is now told in The Lord of the Rings. 
 
A final note may be added, on a point raised by several students of  the  lore of 
the  period.  On  Thror's  Map  is  written  Here  of  old  was  Thrain  King  under  the 
Mountain;  yet  Thrain  was  the  son  of  Thror,  the  last  King  under  the  Mountain 
before  the  coming  of  the  dragon.  The  Map,  however,  is  not  in  error.  Names  are 
often  repeated  in  dynasties,  and  the  genealogies  show  that  a  distant  ancestor  of 
Thror  was  referred  to,  Thrain  I,  a  fugitive  from  Moria,  who  first  discovered  the 
Lonely Mountain, Erebor, and ruled there for a while, before his people moved on 
to the remoter mountains of the North. 

####-Chapter I <br>


####-was  finishing  his  second  cake  and  beginning  to  think  that  he  had  escape 
adventures very well. 
The  next  day  he  had  almost  forgotten  about  Gandalf  He  did  not  remember 
things  very  well,  unless  he  put  them  down  on  his  Engagement  Tablet:  like  this: 
Gandalf մa Wednesday. Yesterday he had been too flustered to do anything of the 
kind. Just before tea-time there came a tremendous ring on the front-door bell, and 
then he remembered! He rushed and put on the kettle, and put out another cup and 
saucer and an extra cake or two, and ran to the door.  
"I am so sorry  to keep you waiting!" he was going  to say, when he saw  that  it 
was not Gandalf at all. It was a dwarf with a blue beard tucked into a golden belt, 
and  very  bright  eyes  under  his  dark-green hood.  As  soon a  the door was opened, 
he pushed inside, just as if he had been expected. 
He hung his hooded cloak on the nearest peg, and "Dwalin at your service!" he 
said with a low bow.  
"Bilbo  Baggins  at  yours!"  said  the  hobbit,  too  surprised  to  ask  any  questions 
for  the  moment.  When  the  silence  that  followed  had  become  uncomfortable,  he 
added:  "I  am  just  about  to  take  tea;  pray  come  and  have  some with me." A  little 
stiff  perhaps,  but  he  meant  it  kindly.  And  what  would  you  do,  if  an  uninvited 
dwarf came and hung his things up in your hall without a word of explanation? 
They had not been at table long, in fact they had hardly reached the third cake, 
when there came another even louder ring at the bell. 
"Excuse me!" said the hobbit, and off he went to the door.  
"So  you  have  got  here  at  last!" was what  he was  going  to  say  to Gandalf  this 
time.  But  it  was  not  Gandalf.  Instead  there 

